.TH XSNOW 1 "Release 6" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xsnow \- let it snow on your desktop and windows
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xsnow
[-option .,..]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Xsnow lets it snow on your desktop and windows (sic!).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
-display display_name
Drop the snowflakes on the given display. Make sure the display is nearby, 
so you can hear them enjoy...
.TP 8
-snowflakes num_snowflakes
This is the number of snowflakes. Default is 100, max is 1000.
.TP 8
-sc snowflake_color
Use the given string as the color for the flakes instead of the default "snow".
.TP 8
-bg background_color
Use the given string as the color for the background. Note that the usual
default desktop pattern consisting of 50% white 50% black doesn't 
particularly look good with Xsnow. 
.TP 8
-solidbg
When using solid colored backgrounds specifying this option MAY greatly
improve performance. (Not on SUN Solaris 2.5.1 for example!)
.TP 8
-tc tree_color
Use the given string as the color for the trees. 
.TP 8
-slc sleigh_color
This option is obsolete in version 1.41.
Used to be the color for the sleigh. Santa has decided not to have you 
interfere with the color of his means of transportation any more.
.TP 8
-santa santa_size
There are 3 sizes of Santa: 0, 1 and 2. Default is 2. Thanks to Thomas
Linder for the (big) Santa!
.TP 8
-santaspeed santa_speed
The speed Santa should not exceed if he doesn't want to get fined. 
The default speed for Santa size 0 is 1, for Santa 1 it's 2 and for 
Big Santa it's 4.
.TP 8
-santaupdatefactor factor
This is to slow down Santa with respect to the snow. Default the value
is 3, meaning that Santa is moved only every third time the snow flakes
move. Specifying zero here is considered very naughty.
.TP 8
-delay delay
This is the number of milliseconds delay after updating everything.
Default is 50 milliseconds, i.e. 20 updates per second max.
.TP 8
-unsmooth
.br
If you specify this option the snowflakes will 'whirl' more dramatically,
resulting in a somewhat jerkier movement.
.TP 8 
-whirl
This sets the whirl factor, i.e. the maximum adjustment of the horizontal 
speed. The default value is 4.
.TP 8
-nowind
Default it gets windy now and then. If you prefer it quiet specify -nowind.
.TP 8
-windtimer period
With -windtimer you can specify how often it gets windy. It's sort of a
period in seconds, default value is 30.
.TP 8
-xspeed -yspeed
These options set the maximum horizontal and vertical speed. The default X
maximum speed is 4, the default maximum Y speed is 8.
.TP 8
-wsnowdepth -ssnowdepth
This sets the maximum thickness of the snow on top of windows and
at the bottom of the display respectively. The default snowdepth for 
windows is 15, at the bottom of the screen the default is 50.
.TP 8
-offset 
With -offset you can specify that snow starts building up a number of
pixels lower or higher. This is handy if you use twm and squeezed window
titles. 
.TP 8
-notrees 
Do not display the trees.
.TP 8
-nosanta
Do not display Santa Claus running all over the screen.
.TP 8
-norudolf
No Rudolf.
.TP 8
-nokeepsnow
Do not have snow sticking anywhere.
.TP 8
-nokeepsnowonwindows
Do not keep snow on top of the windows.
.TP 8
-nokeepsnowonscreen
Do not keep snow at the bottom of the screen.
.TP 8
-nonopopup
Xsnow takes care to not let it snow on Pop-up windows, due to their
nature. If however, you use an Xserver that has backing store on for
all windows, then specify this option. Symptom would be that no snow
is kept on any window, but only at the screen bottom.
.TP 8
-version
Prints the current Xsnow version and does not start Xsnow.
The current version (of this man page) is 1.42, December 14th 2001
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 8
xsnow
.br
Starts xsnow
.TP 8
xsnow&
(Mind the empersand) Starts xsnow as a background process. Use this if you start xsnow from
a script. To stop xsnow find the process id (pid) as follows: ps -ef|grep xsnow
and use the kill command to stop xsnow.
.TP 8
xsnow -bg SkyBlue3 -sc snow  
.br 
Sets the background to a bluish color and lets it snow white.
.TP 8
xsnow -ssnowdepth 100
Starts with a thin layer of snow that gradually builds up at the bottom 
of the screen.
.TP 8
xsnow -santa 2 -santaspeed 10
Gives you the biggest Santa at a speed that is hardly legal.
.TP 8
xsnow -delay 100 -notrees
For slow systems use longer delay and don't draw the trees.
.TP 8
xsnow -snowflakes 1000 -delay 0
.br 
Uses the maximum number of snowflakes and runs as fast as possible.
.TP 8
xsnow -bg SkyBlue3 -solidbg
.br 
Sets the background to a bluish color and specify -solidbg for increased
performance (depending on your system!).
.SH FILES
See /usr/lib/X11/rgb.txt for the list of colors and their respective 
poetic names, like Chartreuse and SkyBlue3.
.SH BUGS
See xroach(1)
.SH AUTHORS
Rick Jansen (rja@euronet.nl)
.br
WWW: http://www.euronet.nl/~rja/
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1984,1988,1990,1993-1995,2000-2001 by Rick Jansen (rja@euronet.nl)

Xsnow is available freely and you may give it to other people as is,
but I retain all rights. Therefore it does not classify as 'Public
Domain' software. However, it *is* allowed to package Xsnow for Unix/Linux
distributions, CD-Roms etc, and to make the necessary changes to
makefiles etc. to facilitate this. 

.SH CREDITS
Xsnow borrows some code from xroach by J.T. Anderson (jta@locus.com)

Xsnow uses vroot.h for use with virtual window managers. 
vroot.h is copyright 1991 by Andreas Stolcke, copyright 1990 by
Solbourne Computer Inc. (stolcke@ICSI.Berkeley.EDU)

The big Santa was made by Thomas Linder (Thomas.Linder@gmx.net)

The idea and code for wind are from Eiichi TAZOE (tazoe@yamato.ibm.co.jp,
tazoe@vnet.ibm.com).

Xsnow 1.42 works with KDE, thanks to Robin Hogan <R.J.Hogan@reading.ac.uk>,
who figured this out for xpenguins 2.2

.SH NOTES
.B System load
.br
Xsnow itself doen't use very much CPU time, but it can load the X server
and/or network quite substantially. Use less snowflakes and a bigger delay
in such a case. On a standalone workstation there usually will not be 
be any problem. Another improvement can be to specify a solid background
color with -bg and with this also specify the option -solidbg. This may 
greatly improve performance! DO check this though, on some systems (SUN
Solaris 2.5.1) performance is much WORSE.

.B KDE (etc)
.br
Xsnow now works with KDE, and some other root window occupying desktop
management systems. On KDE your icons will be snowed away magnificently,
although that is not harmful for your icons really. Simply wipe with
a small window where you thought your trash was, and see it appear.
Now you need to scrape your computer screen too, not just your car's.

.B SGI Irix 5.x
.br
Silicon Graphics and Irix 5.x users may not see any snow or Santa at all,
as long the desktop icons are visible. To circumvent this problem issue
this command:

  /usr/lib/desktop/telldesktop quit

The icons will disappear and Xsnow will work perfectly. To restart the
desktop just start /usr/lib/desktop/startdesktop or select Desktop->Home
Directory from the toolchest.

It's even possible to have both - desktop icons and xsnow (and even
multiple desks). You need to modify the window manager's resource file
4DWm, the file ~/.desktop-`hostname`/4DWm. Example:

*Global.backgroundDescription:   -execute /etc/killall -TERM xsnow ;
/usr/local/bin/xsnow
.br
*Desk 1.backgroundDescription:   -execute /etc/killall -TERM xsnow ;
/usr/local/bin/xsnow
.br
*Desk 2.backgroundDescription:   -execute /etc/killall -TERM xsnow ;
/usr/local/bin/xsnow
.br

Restart the window manager (4Dwm) from the toolchest and Xsnow should 
appear. What this does is stop the currently running Xsnow and start 
a new one when you switch to another desktop. 

.B HP and hp-ux
.br
HP also uses a Workspace Manager which may interfere with Xsnow.
If Xsnow does not appear:
In the "Style Manager", choose "Backdrop" and select "NoBackdrop".
You should now be able to run Xsnow.

.B Snow does not stick?
.br
On black-and-white X terminals snow may not stick to windows because
backing store is on. Try specifying the option -nonopopup when 
starting Xsnow.

.B Snow hovering above windows?
.br
If you use twm it is possible you see the snow layer hovering a little
bit above your windows. In that case set BorderWidth 0 in your .twmrc
file. If you use windows with 'squeezed title bars' specify a -offset to
get the snow on the windows itself.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
snowplough(1), your_travel_agent(1)
